I imagine many of you kind of like
conceptually already understand this,
even if you haven't put a name
to necessarily this algorithm.
But it's useful for
you to just kind of put a name to it right
at once make sure you understand it.
The act of searching is kind
of similar to sorting and
the fact that you are comparing
numbers one to each other.
But in this particular case,
we're not trying to get all the numbers in
one particular order we're actually just
trying to find one particular
element in the array.
If you're running a search on a array
that's not sorted, the only kind of
search you can really do is linear
right which is you just write a for
loop or a while loop and
say like is this it?
Is this it?
And you just kinda go pick for
that that just checks every
single element in the array.
However, if you have an array that's
already sorted, you can use binary search.
And I imagine if you're old
enough to remember phonebooks,
[LAUGH] Which may not be everyone
that's watching this video.
The way that you search in a phonebook
if you're looking for I don't know,
hold in the phonebook, you open it to the
middle, you're gonna land on like M or N.
And then you're gonna split the difference
and go halfway between M and N, right?
And then you're just
gonna keep going half and
half and a half until eventually learn on
the Hs than the HOs and the HLs, right and
then eventually we'll find holes right.
So this algorithm of splitting the array
in half and then half and then half and
in half until eventually you land on
the exact correct element it's called
the binary search, right?
So, imagine we have this array here,
again,
binary search works only if it is sorted,
right, and we're looking for 12.
So what you do you always you
just start in the middle, right?
So the middle is 19,
you say is 19 equal to 12?
No, it's smaller and then you go to the
left and you split the difference there.
So you look in the middle
of the smaller half.
So between 19 and 0,
that middle is going to be ten, right?
You ask this ten equal to 12?
The answer no it's not.
So you go larger, right?
And you go right and
you look in the middle of the larger half,
which is between, in this case
just between 10 and 12, right?
And then you just look there,
which is going to be 12.
And then you ask as well be equals to 12,
yes,
you found the element that makes sense.
Just keeps cutting the array in
half until eventually you find
that the item that you're looking for.
One of the questions you might
ask is like, if it's of length 3,
do I go to the smaller side or
the larger side?
Doesn't matter, just pick 1.
I think in this particular case
I went to the smaller side,
which is why we looked at
10 first instead of 12.
Any questions about
the algorithm of binary search?
Is this best done recursively?
No, I would say this is much better
done with a loop than it is.
Yeah, I guess you could totally
do this with recursively.
I probably would do this with had loop.
Let me just make sure that I'm
not telling you lies here.
Search.
Yep, either way though, I mean, honestly,
binary search,
even on extremely large arrays.
Is really effective.
So you probably would be fine to do
it in recursive ways as well, but
my solution is iterative.
What is the O of this?
Well, we're not looking at every
element in the array, right?
So it's not n it's gonna be less than n
because we're just starting in the middle
and then we're going to
the side that we need to.
So we're not looking at
every element in the array.
So less than n, we do have to look
at some elements in the array.
And it also we get economies of scale
if we have extremely large datasets.
So that puts us at login, right?
So binary search as an algorithm
is time complexity, login.
And if you don't create any
additional data in the process, so
it's constant space.